# CryptoClustering

## Overview

This project attempts to use the knowledge of Python and unsupervised learning we learnt so far to predict the price changes in cryptocurrencies within certain timeframes such as 24 hours or 7 days. 

## Project Structure

-   `Crypto_Clustering.ipynb`: Jupyter Notebook containing the codings and providing the visualisations.
-   `Resources/`: Folder containing the original market data in csv format. 
-   `Images/`: Folder containing screenshots of:
    -   `best k using the original data 1 and 2`: coding to find the best value k (4) using original data.
    -   `crypto clustering with KMeans using the original data 1, 2, 3`: using k=4 to plot the crypto clustering for price change in 24h and 7d.
    -   `optimise the clustering with PCA 1 and 2`: using n_components=3 to reduce the features which explain 89.5% variances; create a dataframe for the PCA data generated.
    -   `find the best value for k using the PCA data 1, 2 and 3`: coding to find the best value k (4 as well) using the PCA data. 
    -   `crypto clustering with KMeans using the PCA data`: also using k=4 to plot the crypto clustering using the PCA data.
    -   `visualise and compare the results 1, 2, 3`: the composite plots and the answer to the impact of using PCA (fewer features) on clustering results. 


## Before You Begin

-   Check if you are able to import all the dependencies in the file "Project3Group1.ipynb"
-   Install the required libraries if needed.

## Setup and use the project

1.  Clone this repository to your local machine.
2.  Navigate to the cloned directory.
3.  Ensure the `Resources` folder contains the original csv file "crypto_market_data.csv".
4.  Open the `Crypto_Clustering.ipynb` Jupyter Notebook in Jupyter Lab or Visual Studio Code.
5.  Follow the steps to run the codes.

## Data ethics considered

During the process of working on the project, efforts are made to follow the rules, including the rules for privacy and ethical coding when extracting data, exploring codes. All the resources used are acknowledged and referenced below.


## References and acknowledgements

- University of Adelaide. (2023). Module 19 contents in particular.
https://bootcampspot.instructure.com/courses/4781/pages/19-unsupervised-machine-learning?module_item_id=1163457
- The help from the teaching team, the Xpert Learning Assistant is acknowledged as usual.


**Data**
- Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

